---
layout: paper
title: "Monetary-Incentive Competition between Humans and Robots: Experimental Results"
year: "2019"
shortref: "Kshirsagar, Dreyfuss, Ishai, Heffetz & Hoffman. HRI 2019"
shorttitle: "Monetary-Incentive Competition between Humans and Robots: Experimental Result"
nickname: ebrd-HRI
journal: "ACM/IEEE International  Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI 2019)"
volume:
issue:
pages:
authors: "Kshirsagar A, Dreyfuss B, Ishai G, Heffetz O, & Hoffman G"
image: /assets/images/papers/ebrd-hri.jpg
pdf:
fulltext: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3323698
pubtype: conference
github:
pmid:  
pmcid:
f1000:
figshare:
doi:
category: papers
published: true
award: Best Full Paper Award
tags: [design, best-paper]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract

In a controlled experiment, participants (n = 60) competed in a monotonous task with an autonomous robot for
real monetary incentives. For each participant, we manipulated the robot’s performance and the monetary incentive level across ten rounds. In each round, a participant’s performance compared to the robot’s would affect their odds in a lottery for the monetary prize. Standard economic theory predicts that people’s effort will increase with prize value. Furthermore, recent work in behavioral economics predicts that there will also be a discouragement effect, with stronger robot performance discouraging human effort, and that this effect will increase with prize. We were not able to detect a meaningful effect of monetary prize, and were thus not able to replicate the results of a prior similar experiment that involved a sequential competition between two humans. However, we found a small discouragement effect, with human effort decreasing
with increased robot performance, significant at the p < 0.005 level. Using per-round subjective indicators, we also found a positive effect of robot performance on its perceived competence, a negative effect on the participants’ liking of the robot, and a negative effect on the participants’ own competence, all at p < 0.0001. These findings shed light on how people may exert work effort and perceive robotic competitors in a human-robot workforce, and could have implications on labor supply decisions and the design of compensation schemes in the workplace.
